.TH scc-update 1 "SCC-SRV" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc-update - update SCC-data in website

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc-srv	1.19.44

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc-update [ -d|--directory <scc_web_path> ] [ -f|--force ] [ -m|--mail <mail_ug> ]
	        [ -o|--option notransfer ] [ --postinstall ] [ --preremove ]
	        [ -w|--web <web_usr> ] [ <dir> ]

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	This program transfers SCC-data from the transfer-area to the website
	and generates summaries. It uses the programs: scc-transfer, 
	scc-summary and scc-select. Refer to the respective manual pages for
	more details.

	The population of realm can be controlled by means of scc-realm(1)
	or by the file custom/scc-auto-realm.conf in a realm. This file contains
	several criteria (hostname, OS, domain) to select or deselect a system
	for a realm. Refer to the EXAMPLES section for more details.

	By using the options, the proper ownership is set for the delivery of
	snapshots via email and for the ownership of the files for the web server.
	This needs to be done only once after installing the software.

.SH  OPTIONS
.nf

	-d|--directory <scc_web_path>   Path under DocumentRoot, default is: "/"
	                                Note: this is the full path from the document-root to the
	                                SCC-data. It only needs to be specified once, as it is
	                                recorded in the file /var/opt/scc-srv/conf/scc.conf
	-f|--force                      Force summaries. By default no summaries are generated
	                                when scc-transfer did not transfer any data.
	-m|--mail <mail_ug>             Set the user:group for the directories for the delivery 
	                                of snapshots via email. Required only once after first
	                                install.
	-o|--option notransfer          No transfer of SCC data before updating the summaries.
	--postinstall                   Postinstall configuration of website.
	--preremove                     Remove all data prior to removing softdware.
	-w|--web <web_usr>              Set the user for the directories of the web server. Required
	                                only once after first install.

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	<dir>           Optional sub-directory of /var/opt/scc-srv/data/www
	                to update summaries. By default all sub-directories
	                are processed.

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	This program writes the following messages to stderr:

	Syntax error, use: scc-update [ -d|--directory <scc_web_path> ] [ -f|--force ]
	        [ -m|--mail <mail_ug> ] [ -o|--option notransfer ] [--postinstall] [--preremove]
	        [ -w|--web <web_usr> ] [ <dir> ]
	A syntax error has been detected.

	scc-update: Syntax error, missing argument for option: <option>
	The argument for <option> is missing.

	scc-update: unknown argument for -o option: <arg>
	Check the manual page for the supported arguments of the -o option.

	scc-update: realm '<dir>' not found
	The specified directory is not found.

	scc-update: another instance is active, check process ID in <lock>
	Another instance of scc-update is active. Remove the lock file only when 
	you are certain that scc-update is not running.

	scc-update: insufficient permissons to generate summaries
	Run the program as a different user (root).

.SH  RETURN VALUE
.nf

	Upon completion, the program returns one of the following values:

		0 successful completion
		1 Syntax error
		2 Runtime error

.SH  FILES
.nf

	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/www - base-directory for separate realms
	When this directory does not exist, the program terminates. Refer
	to scc-realm(1) for the notion of realms, their setup and
	maintenance.
	In each realm the file custom/scc-auto-realm.conf is used to automate populating
	the realm.
	/var/opt/scc-srv/conf/scc.conf - configuration file, records
	        the settings of the -d option
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/log - directory for log files
	        scc-update.log - global logfile, without file no logging
		scc-autorealm.log - autorealm actions, without file no logging
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/www/lock - global lockfile
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/transfer/mail_user_group - record -m option for upgrade of
	        scc-srv

.SH  EXAMPLES
.nf

	To set the owners of the directories:

	   RedHat workstation: scc-update -m mail:mail -w apache
	   SuSE workstation:   scc-update -m daemon:daemon -w wwwuser

	The contents of a scc-auto-realm.conf file are:

		<action>:<hostname>:<domain>:<OS>:<OS-release>

	Where <action> is either "add" or "skip". The other fields are regular expressions. 
	Check the file scc-summary.data for the current values in the All realm.
	Empty lines and lines starting with "#" are ignored.

	To add all HP-UX hosts to a realm specific for the OS, use the following config:

		add:.*:.*:HP-UX:.*

	To add all hosts except those in development domains, use:

		skip:.*:.*development.*:.*:.*
		add:.*:.*:.*:.*

	Processing of a host stops when a match is found in the config file.

	To add all hosts where the domain cannot be determined (or is absent), use:

		add:.*::.*:.*

	All empty entries represent absent data.

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc-update is free software under the terms of the GNU General Public 
	License. Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Open Challenge B.V.,
	2004-2005 OpenEyeT Professional Services, 2005-2018 QNH, 2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc-baseline(1), scc-changes(1), scc-debug(1), scc-pull(1), scc-realm(1),
	scc-receive-mail(1), scc-rules(1), scc-setup(1), scc-smt(1), scc-summary(1),
	scc-syscmp(1), scc-transfer(1), scc-update(1), scc-wrapper.cgi(1), scc.cgi(1),
	scc-srv(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6217 $

