.TH scc-setup 1 "SCC-SRV" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc-setup - activate webinterface of SCC

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc-srv	1.19.44

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc-setup [ -a|--activate | -f|--file <file> | -p|--print | -r|--remove ]

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	This program determines the required data to configure the webinterface
	of SCC and optionally activates this interface. Refer to the external
	influences on this manual page for the variables that are used to
	activate the webinterface.

	The indicated variables can be either supplied via the environment when
	this program is called, via a default/supplied configuration file or via
	defaults. Use the -p option to check the defaults.

	Note that activating the webinterface involves modification of your
	apache configuration and a restart of the webserver!

	Note that the setup activated by this program differs from the documented 
	setup for releases 1.7.47 and earlier. There is no need to change the setup
	of an existing scc-srv. However, when you want to migrate to the new setup,
	you have to make sure that all scc realms reside under the 
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/www directory. After the migration, the symbolic link
	from the document root to the scc-srv hierarchy can be removed.

.SH  OPTIONS
.nf

	-a|--activate           Activate the webinterface. Note that this option 
	                        restarts your apache webserver!
	-f|--file <file>        Use <file> to determine the required data and then
	                        activate the webinterface. Default path of file is
	                        /var/opt/scc-srv/conf/setup.conf. This file has to
	                        be manually created.
	-p|--print              Determine the (default) configuration data and print
	                        the values.
	-r|--remove             Remove the scc integration with apache. Note that
	                        this option restarts your apache webserver!

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	None.

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	This program writes the following messages to stderr:

	Syntax error, use: scc-setup [ -a|--activate | -f|--file <file> | -p|--print | -r|--remove ]
	A syntax error has been detected.

	scc-setup: missing <variable>
	The indicated data cannot be determined.

	scc-setup: cannot source file <file>
	Make sure that <file> exists and is executable.

	scc-setup: cannot access directory WWW_CONFIG: <value>
	The <value> is not a directory.

	scc-setup: only root should run this program
	To activate the webinterface, log in as user root.

	scc-setup: note that webserver is not running, user '<user>' could be wrong
	When the webserver does not run, determination of WWW_USER is not 100% reliable.
	Start the webserver and rerun scc-setup.

	scc-setup: please make sure that your firewall allows traffic for the webserver
	Reconfiguring your firewall is beyond the scope of scc-setup.

	Restarting Apache can also result in messages like:
	httpd: Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name

.SH  RETURN VALUE
.nf

	Upon completion, the program returns one of the following values:

		0 successful completion
		1 Syntax error
		2 Runtime error

.SH  FILES
.nf

	/var/opt/scc-srv/conf/setup.conf - default path of config file
	WWW_CONFIG/scc.conf - scc-srv configuration of apache

.SH  EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.nf

	The following variables are used from the environment (or defined in the
	default/supplied configuration file):

	- WWW_CONFIG    apache configuration directory
	- WWW_USER      user running apache
	- WWW_PATH      path of scc-srv under the document root of apache
	- WWW_RESTART   command to restart apache
	- WWW_VERSION   version of apache: 20, 22, 24

	This program calls scc-update(1) after activating the configuration.

	Note that during the post-install the selinux context of several
	scc-srv directories is set to allow access by the webserver.

	Note that your firewall is not checked/reconfigured to allow traffic
	for the webserver.

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc-setup is free software under the terms of the GNU General Public 
	License. Copyright (C) 2010-2018 QNH, 2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc-baseline(1), scc-changes(1), scc-debug(1), scc-pull(1), scc-realm(1),
	scc-receive-mail(1), scc-rules(1), scc-setup(1), scc-smt(1), scc-summary(1),
	scc-syscmp(1), scc-transfer(1), scc-update(1), scc-wrapper.cgi(1), scc.cgi(1),
	scc-srv(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6217 $

