.TH scc-receive-mail 1 "SCC-SRV" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc-receive-mail - receive snapshot-files through email

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc-srv	1.19.44

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc-receive-mail [ <dir> ]

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	Receive snapshot-files sent by scc via email. The program is activated 
	through an email-alias, transferred files are put in <dir>.

	The files to be transferred can be several MB. Check the mail-
	connectivity first by using the -t option for scc. This will 
	send empty files.

	When the sendmail restricted shell (smrsh) option is enabled, only
	programs in the directory /etc/smrsh can be activated through an
	email alias. Link this program and cat, as that is the only 
	sub-program that is used:

	        cd /etc/smrsh
	        ln -s /opt/scc-srv/bin/scc-receive-mail .
	        ln -s $(which cat) .

	When selinux is enabled, make sure that the mail daemon has permission
	to create files in the destination directory:

	        chcon -R system_u:object_r:mail_spool_t:s0 <dir>

.SH  OPTIONS
.nf

	None.

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	<dir>   destination directory for the received files, make sure
	        that this directory has the proper permissions when
		accessed by a program executed via an email alias.
	        Default directory is /var/opt/scc-srv/transfer/mail.

.SH  WARNING
.nf

	Use of this alias-construct, makes it possible that a Denial Of
	Service is started by sending large amounts of snapshots to the
	server.

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	This program does not issue any messages. It's structure is very
	simple and there are limited options to issue messages when 
	activated though an email alias.

.SH  RETURN VALUE
.nf

	Upon completion, the program returns 0 to avoid returning all files 
	to the sender upon detecting an error. Errors are not signalled.

.SH  EXAMPLES
.nf

	To take a daily snapshot and transfer the files to myserver, use a 
	cronjob like:

	   0 23 * * * /opt/scc/bin/scc -s scc-transfer@mysrv.mydom

	This runs scc-log daily and transfers the files to mysrv. On this 
	system the alias file should contain a line like:

	   scc-transfer: "|/opt/scc-srv/bin/scc-receive-mail "

	Note that scc-receive-mail is run through postfix/sendmail, and does
	not run as root. On a HP-UX/sendmail system, the program is launched
	as daemon/other on a RedHat/sendmail as mail/mail. Use the appropriate 
	permissions for the directories and scc-receive-mail.

	To reduce the likelihood of DOS-attacks, you should use a non-obvious 
	email-alias and not the alias from this documentation.

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc-receive-mail is free software under the terms of the GNU General 
	Public License. Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Open Challenge B.V.,
	2004-2005 OpenEyeT Professional Services, 2005-2018 QNH, 2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  FILES
.nf

	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/transfer/mail - directory to receive files
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/log/scc-receive-mail.log - log file with stdout and stderr
	/var/opt/scc-srv/tmp - directory for temporary files

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc-baseline(1), scc-changes(1), scc-debug(1), scc-pull(1), scc-realm(1),
	scc-receive-mail(1), scc-rules(1), scc-setup(1), scc-smt(1), scc-summary(1),
	scc-syscmp(1), scc-transfer(1), scc-update(1), scc-wrapper.cgi(1), scc.cgi(1),
	scc-srv(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6217 $

