.TH scc-debug 1 "SCC-SRV" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc-debug - collect configuration and logging data of the web-interface

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc-srv	1.19.44

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc-debug <dir>

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	This program collects configuration and optional logging data for analysis
	when the web-interface does not work correctly. The data is produced on 
	stdout and can be used to remotely assist in the analysis of problems.

.SH  OPTIONS
.nf

	None.

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	<dir>           The top-directory of scc-srv data from in the web hierarchy.
	                For example /var/www/html/applications/scc or /srv/www/htdocs/applications/scc.

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	This program writes the following messages to stderr:

	Syntax error, use: scc-debug <dir>
	A syntax error has been detected.

	scc-debug: directory '<dir>' not found
	The specified directory is not found.

	scc-debug: realm '<dir>'/All not found
	The specified directory does not contain the realm All. Use the correct directory
	or link the scc-srv data file hierarchy and the webserver hierarchy.

.SH  RETURN VALUE
.nf

	Upon completion, the program returns one of the following values:

		0 successful completion
		1 Syntax error
		2 Runtime error

.SH  FILES
.nf

	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/transfer - base-directory for transferred data
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/www - base-directory for separate realms
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/log/scc.cgi.log - log file for CGI-script
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/log/scc-transfer.log - default log file

	Argument: <dir> top directory of scc-srv in the web-hierarchy
	/var/opt/scc-srv/conf/scc.conf - configuration file, records
	        the settings of the -d option
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/transfer/mail_user_group - record -m option for upgrade of
	        scc-srv

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc-update is free software under the terms of the GNU General Public 
	License. Copyright (C) 2010-2018 QNH, 2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc-baseline(1), scc-changes(1), scc-debug(1), scc-pull(1), scc-realm(1),
	scc-receive-mail(1), scc-rules(1), scc-setup(1), scc-smt(1), scc-summary(1),
	scc-syscmp(1), scc-transfer(1), scc-update(1), scc-wrapper.cgi(1), scc.cgi(1),
	scc-srv(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6217 $

