.TH scc-pull 1 "SCC-SRV" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc-pull - pull scc-data from clients

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc-srv	1.19.44

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc-pull [ -B <bin> ] [ -D <data> ] [ -d <delay> ] [ -I <ident> ] [ -P <port> ]
		[ -c <remark> ] [ -n ] [ -N ] [ -p <prog> ] [ -s <dest> ] [ -k ] [ -U ]
		[ -f ] [ -e <module> ] [ -m <max> ] [ -u <user> ]
		[ -R <realm> | -F <file> | -L <list> ]+
		[ -o <option> ]

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	This program pulls scc-data from clients using ssh/rsh. This is done
	by (optional) executing scc on clients and pulling the files to the server. 
	Finally scc-update is called to update the realms with the new files.
	By default, scc is started in the background on the clients. The
	program waits some specified time and then pulls the files from the
	clients.

	To reduce the number of firewall rules, systems in a remote network 
	can use a separate scc-srv to act as a proxy. Use the -U option for this
	program to avoid that scc-update is called. The retrieved data can be 
	pushed (with scc client) to or pulled (with scc-srv) from an upstream
	scc-srv site.

	In case of errors when running scc on the clients, the stdout and stderr
	is recorded on the clients in the file /var/opt/scc/data/transfer/scc-pull.log
	When the -D option is used, the path changed accordingly.

	Doug Probst provided the initial version of this program.

.SH  OPTIONS
.nf

	The following options control the execution/retrieval:
	-B <bin>        Use <bin> to start scc on the clients. By default the
	                path is based on /opt/scc-srv/bin, where scc-srv is
	                replaced by scc.
	-c <remark>     Add a remark to the logbook(s), indicating a "specific" 
	                reason to run scc.
	-D <data>       Use <data> to retrieve the data from the clients. By
	                default this is based on /var/opt/scc-srv/data/transfer,
	                where scc-srv is replaced by scc.
	-d <delay>      After starting scc on the clients in the background,
	                wait <delay> seconds before retrieving the files. 
	                Thus, the delay should be long enough for all clients
	                to finish their run of scc. Half of this delay is used
	                with the -d option of the client to avoid that all clients
	                start at the same time.
	                Default delay is 600 seconds. When you specify delay 0,
	                scc is not started in the background on the clients.
	                and scc is run sequential on all hosts.
	-f              Apply -f (fqdn) option when running scc on clients.
	-I <ident>      Full path of identity file for scp; implies "-p ssh".
	-k              Keep/preserve the client data after transfer to the server.
	                Use this option when several servers use the data.
	-n              Do not start scc on the clients, retrieve the scc-files
	                immediately. To be used when the clients use specific
	                scheduling.
	-N              Notify client of pull via transfer/pull_srv (excluding -p ovdeploy).
	-o no_hosts     No strict host checking for ssh and scp.
	                Dropbear ignores the ssh/scp options used for this.
	-o hostname     Restrict pull to host data and ignore data resulting from
	                a scc-split.conf file on the client.
	-o ssh_opt <f>  Use file <f> for additional ssh and scp options (-F <f>).
	                Default ssh config file via config file scc.conf.
	-p <prog>       Use <prog> to communicate with the client. Supported
	                values are: ssh, rsh and ovdeploy. By default ssh is used
	                with a 30 second connection timeout. Without tty,
	                batchmode is used.
	                Test "-p ssh" option in an interactive ssh session to 
	                capture messages and to check for required passwords.
	-P <port>       Port to use for ssh and scp. Default value is 22.
	-s <dest>       Full path of local destination directory for the copied
	                files, by default /var/opt/scc-srv/data/transfer/cp.
	-u <user>       Files are retrieved by <user>, not by root. Remote start
	                of scc is done by root, but the -u option is handed to
	                scc client to give the files that have to be transferred
	                the proper ownership. File retrieval from the clients is
	                done by user <user> when this option is used. When the 
	                program is not run by root, the option -u <user> are 
	                implied. This option is also passed to the client.
	-U              Do not call scc-update to transfer the retrieved data 
	                to a realm. Leave the data for an upstream scc-srv.

	The -f and -u options and the following options are passed to the clients
	when running scc, note that the values are not checked by scc-pull:
	-e <mod>        Specifies which modules to execute on the client. 
	                By default only system modules are executed.
	-m <max>        Entries in the log-file, that are older than <max> 
	                months are deleted.

	The following options control from which clients to pull the files and can be 
	used and combined more than once:
	-F <file>       File <file> contains a list of systems. Empty and 
	                comment lines (starting with "#") are ignored.
	                Requires full path of file or - for stdin.
	                You could use parts of the scc-summary.data from realm(s)
	                to generate your specific <file> before calling scc-pull.
	-R <realm>      Use all cur-files in realm <realm> to determine the
	                clients. By default realm All is used.
	-L <list>       Comma separated list of clients.

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	None.

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	This program writes the following messages to stderr:

	Syntax error, use: scc-pull <options>
	A syntax error has been detected and reported.

	scc-pull: non-numeric delay: <delay>
	Use a numeric value for delay.

	scc-pull: Syntax error, missing argument for option: <option>
	The argument for <option> is missing.

	scc-pull: cannot find realm <realm>
	The directory indicated with the -B option cannot be found in
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/www.

	scc-pull: cannot find directory <dir>
	The directory indicated with the -s option cannot be found.

	scc-pull: cannot find file <file>
	The file indicated with the -F/-I/ssh_opt options cannot be found.

	scc-pull: cannot find ovdeploy
	The indicated transfer program (Open View Operations 8) cannot be found.

	scc-pull: no systems specified via -R, -L and -S options
	No hosts have been specified.

	scc-pull: unsupported method: <prog>
	The value provided with the -p option is not supported.

	scc-pull: unable to copy files to destination <dest>
	Make sure that the destination directory is writeable.

	scc-pull: missing data for <host>
	The host did not produce the scc-data. When the -d options has been used
	and the client has not yet completed it's run. Without the -d option,
	the server waits for the client to complete and missing data indicates
	an internal error in the client.

.SH  EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.nf

	This program calls scc-update to update the realms with the new files.

.SH  RETURN VALUE
.nf
	The possible exit values are:
		0: success
		1: syntax error
		2: general runtime error
		3: missing snapshot after delay

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc-pull is free software under the terms of the GNU General Public 
	License. Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Open Challenge B.V.,
	2004-2005 OpenEyeT Professional Services, 2005-2018 QNH, 2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  EXAMPLES
.nf

	To pull all files for the realm All using ssh and default client and
	server install, use:

		scc-pull

	When you install scc on a new system and want it to be become part of 
	realm All, use the following command once:

		scc-pull -L <sys>

	Now scc runs on the system and the scc-files are transferred to the 
	server where <sys> becomes part of realm All. From now on, using
	scc-pull (without options) will also approach this system.

.SH  FILES
.nf

	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/log/scc-pull.log - log file; without file, no logging
	/var/opt/scc-srv/conf/scc.conf - config file (for ssh config file)
	On client:
	data/transfer/pull_srv - notification (-N) file; contains hostname of pul server
	data/transfer/scc-pull.log - log of client run (no -n option)

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc-baseline(1), scc-changes(1), scc-debug(1), scc-pull(1), scc-realm(1),
	scc-receive-mail(1), scc-rules(1), scc-setup(1), scc-smt(1), scc-summary(1),
	scc-syscmp(1), scc-transfer(1), scc-update(1), scc-wrapper.cgi(1), scc.cgi(1),
	scc-srv(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6217 $

