.TH scc-transfer 1 "SCC-SRV" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc-transfer - move SCC-files from transfer-area to website

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc-srv	1.19.44

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc-transfer [ -m|--minimal ] [ -u|--unpacked <host> ] [ -e|--encrypted ]
	             [ -l|--log <log> ] [ -s|--source <src_dir> ] [ <dest_dir> ]

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	Snapshots and log files are sent to scc server by the client
	software of SCC. The client software stores the files in a 
	transfer-area on the scc server. This program determines the new 
	ownership/permissions of the files in the realm All. Then the files
	are moved to this realm. The mode and the owner/group are derived from
	the destination directory.

	Snapshots (and logfiles) can be large. When they are copied across the 
	network, it is possible that the server notices a partially copied file
	and attempts to uncompress an incomplete file what results in a message 
	about a corrupt file. To avoid this, the client copies an empty .signal
	file before it starts copying the scc-data. When the client is done with
	copying the scc-data, the signal file is copied again, this time with 
	contents "done". This program checks for non-empty signal files to 
	determine what scc-data it can move.

	This program is primarily intended to be used by scc-update. The exit-status
	of this program indicates to scc-update whether or not new SCC data has
	been transferred to realm and summaries should be (re)generated.

	The -u option is intended to transfer unpacked SCC files. The related -m
	option can be used for automatic realm assignment when the name of systems
	in a realm is used to retrieve all data from a proxy server behind a firewall.

.SH  OPTIONS
.nf

	-m|--minimal            Requires -u option to transfer/generate minimal
	                        placeholder file for <host>. Existing data files
	                        are not replaced with minimal data.
	                        Snapshot contains hostname and domain (from <host>).
	-u|--unpacked <host>    transfers unpacked SCC files from <host>:
	                            scc.<host>.cur, scc.<host>.html,
	                            scc.<host>.log, scc.<host>.log.html
	-e|--encrypted          All mail-transfers should be encrypted
	                        to make a DOS attack slightly more difficult
	-l|--log <log>          the file for log-messages; default log file is
	                        /var/opt/scc-srv/data/log/scc-transfer.log
	                        logging is only enabled when this file exists
	-s|--source <src_dir>   Source directory for the transfer, default
	                        directory is: /var/opt/scc-srv/data/transfer
	                        SCC data should be in subdirectory 'cp' or 'mail'
	                        unless the -u option is used.

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	<dest_dir>      absolute path of the destination directory for the
	                received files, make sure that this directory has
	                the proper permissions when accessed by the
	                web-server.
	                Default directory is: /var/opt/scc-srv/data/www/All

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	The program issues the following messages to the stderr:

	Syntax error, use: scc-transfer [ -m|--minimal ] [ -u|--unpacked <host> ]
	        [ -e|--encrypted ] [ -l|--log <log> ] [ -s|--source <src_dir> ] [ <dest_dir> ]
	A syntax error has been detected and reported.

	scc-transfer: Syntax error, missing argument for option: <option>
	The argument for <option> is missing.

	scc-transfer: missing source-directory: <dir>
	scc-transfer: missing destination-directory <dir>
	Directory <dir> cannot be accessed. 

	scc-transfer: missing data for host: <host>
	The signal-file for rcp/scp is present, the data-file is absent.

	scc-transfer: uudecode not found
	The program uses uudecode to decode SCC-data sent via email. On
	RedHat, it is part of shar-utils. It should be installed when 
	SCC-data is sent via email.

	scc-transfer: openssl not found
	scc-transfer: uncompress/gunzip not found
	These programs are required to unpack the SCC-data.
	When it is absent, edit the file /var/opt/scc-srv/conf/scc.conf
	and alter the contents of the variable SCC_PATH. When you upgraded
	from a version of scc-srv prior to 1.4.12, you have to inspect the file
	in the newconfig directory.

	scc-transfer: missing data for id: <id>
	The signal-file for mail/smtp is present, the data-file is absent.

	scc-transfer: missing <transfer> in email: <id> from <sender>
	The uuencoded mail-file does not contain <transfer>, refer to the
	manual page of scc.

	scc-transfer: unexpected data from host: <host>:<contents>,
	        expected:<expected>.
	The tar-file for <host> does not contain the expected snapshots,
	log files and html-files. The data is preserved in
	        /var/opt/scc-srv/data/transfer/error/scc_host.tar
	When multiple hosts send unexpected data, only the data of the last
	host is preserved.

	scc-transfer: unexpected data from <sender>:<contents>, 
	        expected:<expected>.
	The tar-file for encrypted email does not contain the expected files.
	Processing continues after saving the data in
	        /var/opt/scc-srv/data/transfer/error/scc-transfer.e.tar
	When multiple hosts send unexpected data, only the data of the last
	host is preserved.

	scc-transfer: received empty snapshot and log file from <system>
	On <system> scc was used with the -t option to test the transfer.
	The files for <system> already on the server are not replaced.

	scc-transfer: key-file <key> not found
	To decrypt SCC-data sent via email, a private key is used. This
	key should be configured in /var/opt/scc-srv/conf/scc.conf using
	the keyword: SCC_PRIV_HOST_KEY. When this option is configured, the
	file has to exist, even when data is emailed in plain-text.

	scc-transfer: saved snapshot and log file for <host> at <date>
	The new log file for <host> did not contain the date/time of the
	current snapshot. An old recovery after a crash can be the cause
	of this. The current snapshot and log file are saved by 
	appending <date> to the names. These files can be used to check
	for a full recovery.

	scc-transfer: non-encrypted mail transfer from <sender>
	When the -e option is used, all mail transfers should have been
	encrypted. The data is removed.

	scc-transfer: cannot access scc-cmp in <path>
	When a client sends the data of a virtual host for remote comparison
	to the scc-srv, scc-cmp and scc-log2html have to be used. Make sure 
	the proper version of scc is installed on the system in one of the 
	directories in <path>.

	Syntax error, use scc-transfer: scc_msg <sev> <msg>
	scc-transfer: scc_msg: unknown severity: <sev>
	Internal coding errors have been detected.

	scc-transfer: missing directories cp and mail in <source>
	The transfer of SCC data to the server is done by by file transfer 
	or by email. Subdirectories cp and mail indicate how data was sent 
	and how it should be processed.

	scc-transfer: -m option requires -u option
	Use the -u option when using the -m option.

	The messages are sent to stderr and to the log file, when it exists.
	In the log file, the messages are prefixed with the string "ERROR"
	and the current date and time.

	The following message is only recorded in the log file (when it
	exists):
	INFO scc-transfer: received data from <host>
	Data has been received and accepted from <host>.

.SH  RETURN VALUE
.nf

	Syntax errors are indicated by exit status 2, runtime errors
	through exit status 1. All errors are reported on stderr.
	Exit status 0 indicates successful completion, without any
	transfer of SCC-files. Exit status 3 indicates successful transfer
	of data

.SH  EXAMPLES
.nf

	To take a daily snapshot and transfer the files to mysrv, use a 
	cronjob like:

	   0 23 * * * /opt/scc/bin/scc scc-transfer@mysrv.mydom

	This runs scc daily and transfers the files to mysrv. On this 
	system the alias file should contain a line like:

	   scc-transfer: "|/opt/scc-srv/bin/scc-receive-mail "

	Note that scc-receive-mail is run through postfix/sendmail, and 
	does not run as root. On a HP-UX/sendmail system, the program is 
	launched as daemon/other. Use the appropriate permissions for the 
	directories and scc-receive-mail. Use scc-srv(5) for a detailed
	description of the setup of a scc-server.

	To reduce the likelihood of DOS-attacks, you should use a non-obvious 
	email-alias and not the alias from this documentation.

	To transfer the mailed files and generate summaries, use the cronjob:

	   0 * * * * /opt/scc-srv/bin/scc-update

.SH  EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.nf

	Using context diff for the scc client on the scc-srv host, implies this
	mechanismn also for all hosts without a local diff.

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc-transfer is free software under the terms of the GNU General Public 
	License. Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Open Challenge B.V.,
	2004-2005 OpenEyeT Professional Services, 2005-2018 QNH, 2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  FILES
.nf

	/var/opt/scc-srv/conf/scc.conf - configuration file
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/transfer - default directory to receive files
		cp - subdirectory used for: rcp and scp
		mail - subdirectory used for: mail and smtp
		error - subdirectory used for erroneous scc-data
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/log/scc-transfer.log - default log file
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/www/All - default realm for scc-files
	/var/opt/scc-srv/tmp - directory for temporary files

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc-baseline(1), scc-changes(1), scc-debug(1), scc-pull(1), scc-realm(1),
	scc-receive-mail(1), scc-rules(1), scc-setup(1), scc-smt(1), scc-summary(1),
	scc-syscmp(1), scc-transfer(1), scc-update(1), scc-wrapper.cgi(1), scc.cgi(1),
	scc-srv(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6217 $

