.TH scc-syscmp 1 "SCC-SRV" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc-syscmp - compare parts of SCC snapshots

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc-srv	1.19.44

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc-syscmp [ -l|--log <log> ] <class> <snapshot-1> <snapshot-2>

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	According to a classfile, this program extracts a part of two 
	snapshots and compares the data. This program uses scc-baseline
	to extract data from the snapshots according to the classfile.
	Each line of the resulting output is prefixed with the name of the
	corresponding system.

	Refer to the manual page (section 4) of scc for a detailed description of
	the format of snapshots and class-files. 

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	<class>         classification or file with classifications to be extracted
	<snapshot-1>    snapshot to be compared
	<snapshot-2>    snapshot to be compared

.SH  OPTIONS
.nf

	-l|--log <log>  log sizes of extracted class-data from both snapshots
	                in file <log>.

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	This program writes the following message to stderr:

	Syntax error, use: scc-syscmp [ -l|--log <log> ] <class>     \
	        <snapshot-1> <snapshot-2>
	A syntax error has been detected and reported.

	scc-syscmp: Syntax error, missing argument for option: <option>
	The argument for <option> is missing.

	scc-syscmp: hostnames not found in snapshots
	The program uses the filenames of the snapshots to determine the
	hostnames of the systems.

	scc-syscmp: non-existing or empty file(s): <snapshot-1> <snapshot-2>
	The snapshots cannot be found or are empty.

.SH  EXAMPLES
.nf

	To compare the boot-configuration of two HP-UX workstations, create
	a class-file (named class_boot):

		:boot:

	Use the following command to compare the snapshots of the systems
	c011 and c012:

		scc-syscmp ./class_boot ./scc.c011.cur ./scc.c012.cur

	We received the following output:

c011:boot:config:/stand/bootconf::l /dev/dsk/c0t5d0
c012:boot:config:/stand/bootconf::l  /dev/dsk/c0t5d0
c012:boot:info::lvlnboot:       /dev/dsk/c0t6d0 (2/0/1.6.0)
c012:boot:rc-file:/etc/rc.config.d/Dmiconfig::START_DMI=1
c012:boot:rc-file:/etc/rc.config.d/Dmiconfig::DMI_IGNORECONFIGURECHECK=0
c011:boot:rc-file:/etc/rc.config.d/namesvrs::NIS_CLIENT="1"
c011:boot:rc-file:/etc/rc.config.d/namesvrs::NIS_DOMAIN="nis010"
c011:boot:rc-file:/etc/rc.config.d/namesvrs::WAIT_FOR_NIS_SERVER="FALSE"
c012:boot:rc-file:/etc/rc.config.d/namesvrs::NIS_CLIENT=1
c012:boot:rc-file:/etc/rc.config.d/namesvrs::NIS_DOMAIN=nis010
c012:boot:rc-file:/etc/rc.config.d/namesvrs::WAIT_FOR_NIS_SERVER=FALSE
c012:boot:rc-file:/etc/rc.config.d/scrdaemon::SCR_DAEMON=1
c011:boot:rc-file:/etc/rc.config.d/xfs::RUN_X_FONT_SERVER=1
c012:boot:rc-file:/etc/rc.config.d/xfs::RUN_X_FONT_SERVER=0
c012:boot:run level:/sbin/rc1.d::K395Dmisp -> /sbin/init.d/Dmisp
c012:boot:run level:/sbin/rc2.d::S605Dmisp -> /sbin/init.d/Dmisp
c011:boot:stable-storage::Autoboot is ON (enabled)
c012:boot:stable-storage::Autoboot is OFF (disabled)

	Apparently the two systems are not identical. Some differences involve
	additional spaces or quotes, while others indicate different behavior
	of the systems. It is up to the administrators to decide whether these
	differences are desirable or indicate a lack of consistent 
	administration.

.SH  RETURN VALUE
.nf

	Upon completion, the program returns one of the following values:

		0 successful completion
		1 Syntax error
		2 Runtime error

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc-syscmp is free software under the terms of the GNU General Public 
	License. Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Open Challenge B.V.,
	2004-2005 OpenEyeT Professional Services, 2005-2018 QNH, 2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc-baseline(1), scc-changes(1), scc-debug(1), scc-pull(1), scc-realm(1),
	scc-receive-mail(1), scc-rules(1), scc-setup(1), scc-smt(1), scc-summary(1),
	scc-syscmp(1), scc-transfer(1), scc-update(1), scc-wrapper.cgi(1), scc.cgi(1),
	scc-srv(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6217 $

