.TH scc-realm 1 "SCC-SRV" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc-realm - maintenance for realms with SCC-data

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc-srv	1.19.44

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc-realm [ -q|--quick ] [ -i|--index ] [ -b|--backup <file> ]
	          -a|--add | -A|--archive <target> [ -w|--web ] | -l|--systems [ -f|--fqdn ] | -d|--delete | -r|--rename <new_name>
	          [ -F|--file <file> | -L|--list <list> | -R|--realm <cp_realm> ] <realm>

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	A realm contains the SCC-snapshots of a group of systems and the
	summaries of the snapshots and logbooks. This program maintains realms
	by creating/deleting realms and by adding/deleting/archiving systems.

	When a realm is created, the contents of directory
	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/www/custom is used as default.
	A new realm does not have the file scc-smt-select and scc-rules.conf
	in the sub-directory custom. These files have to created/copied 
	manually. Refer to the manual pages of scc-smt(1) and scc-rules(1) for
	details.

	When realms are added or removed, scc-realm attempts to update
	the file /var/opt/scc-srv/data/www/index.html. This file contains
	the list of all the realms. It will only be updated by scc-realm
	when a specific line is present in this file. When updating an 
	existing installation, search this script for the line to be added.
	Look for the string: SCC_REALM. When you do not add this line,
	new realms will not be added automatically.

	This program performs its actions indicated by the -a|--add, -A|--archive 
	and -d|--delete options in the following order:

	1: create realm and add systems
	2: archive realm
	3: delete realm or systems from realm

	It is possible to perform all three steps with a single invocation
	of this program.

	Realms can be used to restrict the number of systems to be
	searched/viewed. Beside grouping the systems according to your
	departments, you can also create realms for all HP-UX, Solaris
	and RedHat systems. Each system can join several realms.
	
	Realms can also be used to restrict access to the SCC-data of systems
	for several groups of administrators. By means of the .htaccess 
	file in a realm, the web-access is controlled.
	It is also possible to setup the directory permissions to
	allow command-line access to the files, based on the groups.

.SH  OPTIONS
.nf
	-a|--add                Add the selected systems to the realm. When the realm does not exist,
	                        it is created. Permissions and owner are copied from the directory
	                        /var/opt/scc-srv/data/www/custom
	-d|--delete             Delete systems from the realm. When no systems are specified,
	                        the realm itself is deleted.
	-i|--index              Generate the references to the realms in de top-level index.html.
	                        No further actions are executed.
	-b|--backup <file>      Backup configuration and system summary data in <file> via tar.
	                        For each realm the custom directory and scc-summary.data is archived.
	                        Be aware that NO data from scc clients is archived. The archived data
	                        can be used to preserve realm specific configuration and the systems
	                        comprising each realm.
	                        Other options and arguments are ignored after archiving.
	-l|--systems            List systems from the realm. Ignores -F, -L and -R options.
	-f|--fqdn               Add domain to listed systems. Applies only for -l option.
	-A|--archive <target>   Archive the snapshots and logbooks of the (selected systems of the)
	                        realm in directory <target>. Without the -w option, the files
	                        will be owned by root, otherwise by the user of the realm directory.
	                        When no systems are selected via -L, -R and -F options, the entire
	                        realm is archived.
	                        Directory <target> should be an absolute path.
	-r|--rename <new_name>  Rename <realm> to <new_name>. Ignores -F, -L and -R options.
	-w|--web                Archive also html files. By default only plain snapshots and logfiles 
	                        are archived. Ownership of the directory and the files is set to
	                        the user of the realm All directory. With this option, the archive
	                        realm could be accessed via a browser and a "minimal" index.html is
	                        generated.
	-F|--file <file>        The file contains a list of systems, one system per line. Empty and
	                        comment lines (starting with "#") are ignored. Requires full path of file.
	-R|--realm <cp_realm>   Use all cur-files in realm <cp_realm> to determine the systems.
	-L|--list <list>        Comma separated list of systems to add to or delete from <realm>
	-q|--quick              Do not call scc-update after adding/deleting hosts.

	Note that the -F|--file, -L|--list and -R|--realm options can be mixed and used more than once.

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	<realm>         The realm sub-directory in /var/opt/scc-srv/data/www.

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	This program writes the following messages to stderr:

	Syntax error, use: scc-realm <option>* <realm>
	A syntax error has been detected.

	scc-realm: unable to access '<arg>' for -<option> option"
	The argument of the indicated option cannot be found in the filesystem.

	scc-realm: template directory '<template>' does not exist
	The indicated template directory should exist.

	scc-realm: file '<file>' not found
	When adding a system to a realm, the file cannot be found in
	the default realm.

	scc-realm:: attempt to delete (from) non-existent realm '<realm>'
	The realm to remove (the systems from) was not found.

	scc-realm: cannot delete realm 'All'
	Realm All cannot be deleted as it is the base of the website of scc-srv.

	scc-realm}: directory '<dir>' exists in <web_dir> and is not a realm
	The directory of the realm exists, but misses required subdirectories.

	scc-realm: realm name should not contain '/': <realm>
	The name of a realm should be a single level sub directory.

	scc-realm: cannot rename to existing '<new_name>'
	An existing file or directory was specified for renaming.

	scc-realm: cannot add systems to realm 'All'
	Systems that are added to realms, originate from realm All. Therefore
	adding systems to All is not possible. scc-transfer adds new systems to
	realm All when it processes data transferred to scc-srv.

	scc-realm: unable to create directory '<dir>'
	Check the file system for the reason of the failure.

	scc-realm: do not archive in realm '<realm>'
	A realm requires a specific structure and contents that are differ
	from an archive directory. Therefore a realm cannot be the destination
	of archiving.

	scc-realm: do not use subdirectory of /var/opt/scc-srv/data/www for archiving
	Avoid confusion for scc-srv software. This directory is meant for realms.

	scc-realm: cannot access realm '<realm>'
	A non-existing realm has been specified.

.SH  EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.nf

	After adding/deleting systems, this program calls scc-update(1) to update 
	the summaries in <realm>. After archiving, this program optionally calls 
	to create a basic webinterface to the archive.

.SH  EXAMPLES
.nf

	Suppose that system1 and system2 are the responsibility of the 
	Education department and system3 and system4 for the Sales 
	department.
	After creating two additional realms: Education and Sales, we
	also create three unix groups: scc_all, scc_edu and scc_sale. 
	To control the web- and filesystem-level access, we use the
	following commands:

	   vi /etc/group       # add members to scc_all, scc_edu and scc_sale
	   cd /var/opt/scc-srv/data/www
	   chgrp -R scc_all All
	   chmod g=rx,o=x All
	   chmod g=r All/scc.*
	   scc-realm --add --quick --list system1,system2 Education
	   chgrp -R scc_edu Education
	   scc-realm --add --quick --list system3,system4 Sales
	   chgrp -R scc_sale Sales
	   /opt/scc-srv/bin/scc-update -f

	Edit the .htaccess files in All, Education and Sales. Any 
	administrators that are members of the scc_all, scc_edu and 
	scc_sale groups, have filesystem level access to the SCC-data
	of their systems.
	The same administrators and groups should be specified in the 
	htpasswd and htgroup files to give the same users web-access to 
	SCC-data of their systems. This only works when each system is 
	added to at most one realm beside All.

	To rename a realm, the following command can be used:

	   /opt/scc-srv/bin/scc-update -r NewRealm OldRealm

	When systems system1 and system2 are no longer used, their data will
	not be updated and it is of limited use. When you want to archive
	the history of your environment, archive their data before removing
	them. Use the following commands to achive this:

	   /opt/scc-srv/bin/scc-realm --archive /<dir>/archive --list system1,system2 --delete All

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc-realm is free software under the terms of the GNU General Public 
	License. Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Open Challenge B.V.,
	2004-2005 OpenEyeT Professional Services, 2005-2018 QNH, 2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  FILES
.nf

	/var/opt/scc-srv/data/www - base-directory for all realms
	  index.html - index with existing realms
	  custom/scc-logo.png - default logo-file
	  custom/scc-realm.conf - default configuration file
	  custom/style.css - default stylesheet
	  custom/favicon.ico - default icon
	  All/.htaccess - default access file
	  <realm>/cgi-bin - contains scc-wrapper.cgi for <realm>
	  <realm>/custom - contains the HTML-addons
	        scc-auto-realm.conf - automatic population of realms
	        scc-logo.png - logo-file
	        scc-realm.conf - configuration for <realm>
	        style.css - stylesheet for <realm>
	        favicon.ico - icon for <realm>
	        These files are symbolic links to top-level directory
	        custom.
	  <realm>/.htaccess - controls access to realm

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc-baseline(1), scc-changes(1), scc-debug(1), scc-pull(1), scc-realm(1),
	scc-receive-mail(1), scc-rules(1), scc-setup(1), scc-smt(1), scc-summary(1),
	scc-syscmp(1), scc-transfer(1), scc-update(1), scc-wrapper.cgi(1), scc.cgi(1),
	scc-srv(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6217 $

