.TH scc-baseline 1 "SCC-SRV" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc-baseline - extract baseline of SCC snapshot

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc-srv	1.19.44

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc-baseline <class>

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	This program reads a snapshot from stdin, extracts data with certain 
	classifications and writes the extracted data to stdout. The output
	is limited to "fixed" data from the snapshot. The file class contains
	lines specifying the classifications to be extracted.

	Comparison of the specified classes starts with the top-level of all
	the classifications. Extracting class ":general:" does not retrieve
	class ":LVM:general:".

	A snapshot is a file containing configuration data collected by scc-log
	of the scc client. Each line of configuration-data is prefixed with
	a classification. Refer to the manual page, section 4, of scc for
	a description of the format of the contents of a snapshot and the 
	classfile.

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	<class>         file with classifications to be extracted; one per line

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	This program writes the following message to stderr:

	Syntax error, use: scc-baseline <class>
	A syntax error has been detected and reported.

	scc-baseline: file <class> not found
	The class-file is not found.

.SH  EXAMPLES
.nf

	To extract all kernel configuration data from a snapshot (named
	snap_file), create a file (named class_kernel) with the following 
	contents:

		:kernel:

	Use the following command to extract the kernel data from the snapshot:

		scc-baseline class_kernel <snapshot

.SH  RETURN VALUE
.nf

	Upon completion, the program returns one of the following values:

		0 successful completion
		1 Syntax error
		2 Runtime error

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc-baseline is free software under the terms of the GNU General Public 
	License. Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Open Challenge B.V.,
	2004-2005 OpenEyeT Professional Services, 2005-2018 QNH, 2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc-baseline(1), scc-changes(1), scc-debug(1), scc-pull(1), scc-realm(1),
	scc-receive-mail(1), scc-rules(1), scc-setup(1), scc-smt(1), scc-summary(1),
	scc-syscmp(1), scc-transfer(1), scc-update(1), scc-wrapper.cgi(1), scc.cgi(1),
	scc-srv(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6217 $

