.TH scc-collect 1 "SCC" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc-collect - collect system configuration in a SCC-snapshot

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc	1.26.73

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc-collect [ -a|--alternate <arg> ]
	            [ -e|--extra <user_mod> ] [ -S|--selection <mod> ]
	            [ -h|--help ] [ -i|--interactive ]

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	This program collects configuration data from a system and writes
	it to stdout as a SCC-snapshot. A snapshot is a file containing 
	configuration data. Each line of configuration-data is prefixed with
	a classification. Refer to scc(4) for a detailed description of the
	format of the contents of a snapshot.

	Part of the classification is an indicator whether the data is fixed 
	or variable. This makes it possible to compare snapshots and report 
	any difference in the configuration data that was supposed to be fixed.

	The entire process of creating a new snapshot, comparing it with the
	previous one and adding the differences to a logbook is done by 
	scc-log(1).

	The collection of configuration data is performed by means of 
	modules, located in directory /opt/scc/bin/scc_modules. There are two
	kinds of modules: system and user. The distinction is made by means
	of the names: scc_9999_s_<name> and scc_9999_u_<name>. Where 9999
	stands for a four digit number used to determine the order of the
	execution of the modules. The _s_ and _u_ indicate the system and
	user modules. When a system and user module use the same four-digit
	number, the system module is executed first. System modules are 
	distributed by scc. Each site can extend the functionality of SCC
	by adding user modules.

	When a user module is executed and the -i option is not used, the
	output of the module is stored in a file that is added to the snapshot
	for later calls of this script (to avoid changes in the logbook).
	User module data is kept in /var/opt/scc/data/plugin_data/<module>.
	The data of the first run of a user module is ignored when generating
	the logbook (refer to scc-cmp).

	When a user module requires additional arguments, the -a option
	can be used. Note that each started user module is started with
	these arguments.

	When the code of a user module changes, scc-collect automatically
	ignores any changes in the scc-data of this module on the next run
	of the user-module. To test module scc_1234_u_abc, use the
	following steps:

	   - run all system modules and the user-module to catch changes:
	     scc -e scc_1234_u_abc
	   - change the user-module
	   - test the user-module:
	     scc-collect -i -e scc_1234_u_abc
	   - rerun the system modules and the user-module and store the output:
	     scc -e scc_1234_u_abc

	Note: when you change a user-module without running it, you will
	loose all changes (for the module) that will be made before the 
	next run.

	scc-collect and its modules use sensible defaults to avoid that 
	many systems require a configuration file. When the defaults are
	insufficient, copy /etc/opt/scc/newconfig/scc-localize to
	/etc/opt/scc/conf/scc-localize and uncomment the required variables.
	When the --no_conf_sub_dir option was used with the relocate script,
	the copy is not required.

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	None.

.SH  OPTIONS
.nf

	-a|--alternative <arg>  Start each user module with argument <arg>.
	-e|--extra <user_mod>   Run extra user module <user_mod>. Refer to the DESCRIPTION
	                        section for a detailed description of modules.
	                        <user_mod> can contain shell filename wildcards.
	                        To find the matching modules, the program searches
	                        for *<user_mod>* when checking user modules.
	-S|--selection <mod>    Run selected (system or user) module(s).
	                        Where <mod> can contain shell filename wildcards.
	-h|--help               Display the syntax and exit.
	-i|--interactive        Run the program interactively. Without this option,
	                        the program does not run when stdin is a tty. The keep
	                        file is not renewed as this invocation is not from scc-log.

.SH  EXAMPLES
.nf

	To execute all user modules, specify:

		scc-collect -i -e "scc_????_u_".

.SH  EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.nf

	The HP Support Tools Manager (stm) is not called when the environment
	variable SCC_IGNORE_STM is set. During install by SD-UX, it is set
	to avoid running stm.

	RPM is locked during installation of SCC, ignore rpm during installs
	of SCC. The install-scripts set the environment variable 
	SCC_INSTALL_PHASE.

	Use the environment variable SCC_PROFILING in scc-localize to add
	timing data to the snapshot. This enables you to locate possible performance 
	bottlenecks. The default value activates profiling and performance
	data is added to the snapshot.
	The profile data has classification: "stats:profiling::"

	Use environment variable SCC_DATA to specify an alternative directory
	for the SCC data files. Should be an absolute path.

	Use environment variable SCC_DEBUG to run module(s) with set -x enabled.
	This works by invoking scc-collect itself and not when it is called
	via scc-log.

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	This program writes the following messages to stderr:

	Syntax error, use: scc-collect [ -a|--alternate <arg> ] [ -e|--extra <user_mod> ]
	            [ -h|--help ] [ -i|--interactive ]
	A syntax error has been detected and reported.

	scc-collect: Syntax error, missing argument for option <option>
	The indicated option is missing argument(s).

	scc-collect: use -i option to run interactive
	Avoid immediately running all collection scripts interactively.
	
	scc-collect: non-executable module: <module>
	Correct the permissions of the module in the directory
	/opt/scc/bin/scc_modules.

	scc-collect: missing data for module: <module>
	The file /var/opt/scc/data/plugin_data/<module> is missing.
	Run the module with the -m option to generate the datafile.
	
.SH  RETURN VALUE
.nf

	Upon completion, the program returns one of the following values:

		0 successful completion
		1 syntax error
		2 runtime error

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc-collect is free software under the terms of the GNU General Public 
	License. Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Open Challenge B.V.,
	2004-2005 OpenEyeT Professional Services, 2005-2018 QNH,
	2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  FILES
.nf

	/opt/scc/bin/scc_modules - directory with modules
		scc_utils - utilities for modules
		scc_[0-9][0-9][0-9][0-9]_s_*
		system modules, always executed
		scc_[0-9][0-9][0-9][0-9]_u_*
	        user modules, executed via --extra option
	/var/opt/scc/data/plugin_data/<module> - output of user module
	/var/opt/scc/data - directory for data files
		scc.<hostname>.cur - current SCC-snapshot
		scc.<hostname>.html - current SCC-snapshot in HTML-format
		scc.<hostname>.old - previous SCC-snapshot
		scc.<hostname>.new - new (temporary) SCC-snapshot
		scc.<hostname>.log - logbook for changes in SCC-snapshot
		scc.<hostname>.log.html - logbook in HTML-format
		scc.<hostname>.keep - data kept from a previous run

	/etc/opt/scc/conf/scc_local_* - specification for module scc_0640_s_local

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc(1), scc-cmp(1), scc-collect(1), scc-log(1), scc-log2html(1),
	scc-plugin(1), scc-snap2html(1), scc(4), scc(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6298 $

