.TH scc-cmp 1 "SCC" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc-cmp - compare two SCC-snapshots

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc	1.26.73

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc-cmp <prev> <new> <remark> <ignore>

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	This program compares the current and new snapshots, ignoring some
	data by means of the sed-expressions <ignore>. The results of the
	compare are written to stdout.

	Do not signal all changes when new and previous snapshots are less
	than 20% of each other or when the number of differences execeeds 20.000
	lines. Reduce the differences to the count of all classes of the
	differences.

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	<prev>          The snapshot of the previous run. Absence of this file
	                indicates a (re)start.
	<new>           The snapshot of the current run.
	<remark>        Remark to be added to logbook.
	<ignore>        File containing sed-statements ignoring certain data.
	                An empty value is replaced by /dev/null.

.SH  OPTIONS
.nf

	None.

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	This program writes the following messages to stderr:

	Syntax error, use: scc-cmp <prev> <new> <remark> <ignore>
	A syntax error has been detected and reported.

	scc-cmp: cannot access file <new>
	The new snapshot cannot be found.

.SH  EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.nf

	This program is part of the SCC client, but is also used by the
	SCC server.

	This program will not work correctly when diff is absent. The SCC client checks
	for this dependency before calling this program, the SCC server software not.

	Use environment variable SCC_DATA to specify an alternative directory
	for the SCC data files. Should be an absolute path.

.SH  RETURN VALUE
.nf

	Upon completion, the program returns one of the following values:

		0 successful completion
		1 Syntax error
		2 Runtime error

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc-cmp is free software under the terms of the GNU General Public
	License. Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Open Challenge B.V.,
	2004-2005 OpenEyeT Professional Services, 2005-2018 QNH,
	2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc(1), scc-cmp(1), scc-collect(1), scc-log(1), scc-log2html(1),
	scc-plugin(1), scc-snap2html(1), scc(4), scc(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6259 $

