.TH scc-snap2html 1 "SCC" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc-snap2html - converts a SCC-snapshot to HTML-format

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc	1.26.73

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc-snap2html [ -h|--help ] [ -s|--standalone ] <hostname>

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	This program reads a SCC-snapshot from stdin and converts it to 
	HTML-format on stdout. The hierarchical classification in the snapshot
	is converted to a hierarchical menu to the corresponding data. Refer to
	scc(4) for a detailed description of a SCC-snapshot.

	The resulting html-code only contains text and can be viewed with a 
	browser like lynx.

	The snapshot contains DIV-tags with the following nested classes:
	    - SCC_SNAP
	        - SCC_SNAP_NAV
	        - SCC_SNAP_MENU
	        - SCC_SNAP_ENTRY
	        - SCC_SNAP_STATS
	        - SCC_SNAP_HELP
	The sylesheet style.css in /var/opt/scc/data controls the markup.

.SH  OPTIONS
.nf

	-h|--help       Display the syntax and exit.
	-s|--standalone Embed the stylesheet in the html-data and do not
	                show "external" links to logbook and index.html.
	                Use this option before transferring the html
	                version of the snapshot to a user.

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	<name>          name of the host to convert the SCC-snapshot for

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	This program writes the following message to stderr:

	Syntax error, use: scc-snap2html [ -h|--help ] [ -s|--standalone ] <name>
	A syntax error was detected and reported.

	scc-snap2html: insufficient permissions to write in data directory: <data_dir>
	To run this program, log in as the owner of the directory.

.SH  RETURN VALUE
.nf

	Upon completion, the program returns one of the following values:

		0 successful completion
		1 Syntax error
		2 Runtime error

.SH  EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.nf

	Use environment variable SCC_DATA to specify an alternative directory
	for the SCC data files. Should be an absolute path.

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc-snap2html is free software under the terms of the GNU General Public
	License. Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Open Challenge B.V.,
	2004-2005 OpenEyeT Professional Services, 2005-2018 QNH,
	2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  FILES
.nf

	/var/opt/scc/data/style.css - stylesheet for snapshot (and logbook)

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc(1), scc-cmp(1), scc-collect(1), scc-log(1), scc-log2html(1),
	scc-plugin(1), scc-snap2html(1), scc(4), scc(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6216 $

