.TH scc-plugin 1 "SCC" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc-plugin - template for a user or system module

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc	1.26.73

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc-plugin

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	This program can be used as a starting point to write new modules
	for SCC. To extend the collection of data by scc-collect, copy this
	script to the directory /opt/scc/bin/scc_modules and name it
	scc_9999_[us]_NAME, where 9999 is a four-digit number specifying the
	order in which scc-collect executes the modules. Refer to the manual
	page of scc-collect for more details concerning modules.

	A user module (_u_) is not run by default, it requires the -e option
	of scc. A system module (_s_) is run by default, also during
	pre- and post-install. A user module is meant for long running commands.
	Module scc_0700_u_hp_ovou_srv is an example that can take 15 to 30 minutes.

	Data should be produced on stdout. Refer to scc(4) for a description
	of the layout of the data in a snapshot.

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	Use the -a option of scc-collect to provide this module with
	arguments. Another possibility to add dynamic behavior to this script
	is by using the file /etc/opt/scc/conf/scc-localize.

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	Any errors detected by this program should be produced on stdout
	in the following format:

		fix:messages::<message>

.SH  EXAMPLE
.nf

	The following code records the DNS-data of our domain:

		sed -e "s/^/fix:network:DNS mycom.com::/" /var/named/db.mycom

	Copy scc-plugin to scc_modules/scc_0500_u_dns and add this code at 
	the end of the new script and run:

		scc -e dns

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc-plugin is free software under the terms of the GNU General Public 
	License. Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Open Challenge B.V.,
	2004-2005 OpenEyeT Professional Services, 2005-2018 QNH,
	2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  FILES
.nf

	/opt/scc/bin/scc_modules - directory for modules
	/var/opt/scc/data - directory for data files

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc(1), scc-cmp(1), scc-collect(1), scc-log(1), scc-log2html(1),
	scc-plugin(1), scc-snap2html(1), scc(4), scc(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6297 $

