.TH scc 1 "SCC" 
.nf


.SH  NAME
.nf

	scc - collect and send snapshot-files to server

.SH  RELEASE
.nf

	scc	1.26.73

.SH  SYNOPSIS
.nf

	scc [ -a|--alternate <alt> ] [ -c|--comment <remark> ] [ -d|--delay <delay> ]
	        [ -e|--extra <mod> ] [ -S|--selection <mod> ] [ -f|--fqdn ]
	        [ -F|--from <from> ] [ -h|--help ] [ -i|--smtp <smtp> ]
	        [ -I|--ident <ident> ] [ -k|--key <key> ]
	        [ -l|--label <label> ]
	        [ -m|--max_age <max> ] [ -n|--norun ] [ -o|--option <option> ]
	        [ -p|--prog <prog> ] [ -P|--port <port> ] [ -r|--restart ]
	        [ -s|--destination <dest> ] [ -t|--test ]
	        [ -u|--user <user> ] [ -v|--virtual <host> ] [ -V|--version ]

.SH  DESCRIPTION
.nf

	Run the program scc-log and optionally send the resulting files 
	to the destination. By default the files are prepared for a pull by
	scc-srv. Other transfer mechanisms are ftp, rcp, scp and cp. When 
	scc-log exits with an error, no files are transferred.

	The security setup of the server receiving the files is very
	important. Refer to the documentation of scc-srv for the setup
	of the server.

	The collection of scc-data from the system is done by means of
	modules. Two kinds of modules exist, user and system modules. 
	The system modules are installed and run by scc. To extend the
	reach of the snapshots, user modules can be added to collect
	additional data. Refer to scc-collect(1) for more details. To
	run all user modules, use the following command-line:

		scc -e "*"

	When a specific user module requires much time, you can run
	it less frequent. The data from the last run of the module is
	kept in file /var/opt/scc/data/plugin_data/<module> and inserted
	into the snapshot when the user module is not selected to run.

	Suppose you have three user modules, named:

		scc_0550_u_abc
		scc_0650_u_def
		scc_0750_u_ghi

	Where module scc_0650_u_def should be run only once a week,
	while you want scc to run daily. You can use the following
	cronjobs to achieve this:

		0 6 1-6 * * /opt/scc/bin/scc -e "scc_0[57]50_u_"
		0 6 0   * * /opt/scc/bin/scc -e "*"

	You have to use the naming convention and shell filename
	generation wildcards to specify multiple modules to run.

	When stdin is not a terminal, after running scc-log, a random 
	delay is used to sleep before the files are transferred to the
	destination. This avoids flooding the receiving system when all
	your systems start scc at the same time.
	The transferred files are tarred, compressed and uuencoded when
	sent via email. For RedHat, uuencode is part of 
	Applications/Archiving.

	The files to be transferred can be several MB. Check the mail-
	connectivity first by using the -t option. This will send empty files.
	Use the -p option with "smtp" to use the SMTP-protocol directly and
	skip the mail-transport facility of the client.

	Refer to the manual page of scc-log(1) for troubleshooting
	when scc seems to "hang".

	Use the environment variable SCC_PROFILING to add timing data
	to the snapshot. This enables you to locate possible performance
	bottlenecks. The default value activates profiling and performance
	data is added to the snapshot.

	scc-collect and its modules use sensible defaults to avoid that 
	many systems require a configuration file. When the defaults are
	insufficient, copy /etc/opt/scc/newconfig/scc-localize to
	/etc/opt/scc/conf/scc-localize and uncomment the required variables.
	When the --no_conf_sub_dir option was used with the relocate script,
	the copy is not required.

.SH  OPTIONS
.nf

	-a|--alternate <alt>      Use <alt> as directory where from snapshots
	                          and logbooks of alternate systems are to
	                          be transferred to the scc-server.
	                          The -f option is ignored. The program
	                          that produces the alternate snapshots is
	                          responsible for the correct format and
	                          contents of the scc-data.
	                          When the files are symbolic links, they are
	                          removed after transferring their contents.
	                          For each system <s>, this directory should
	                          contain the files: scc.<s>.cur, scc.<s>.log,
	                          scc.<s>.html and scc.<s>.log.html
	                          Implies the -n option.
	-c|--comment <remark>     Add a remark to the logbook, indicating
	                          a "specific" reason to run scc. To mark the
	                          implementation of RFC "123" on a system, use:

                                 scc                # record changes up to this moment
                                 # perform the tasks required by the RFC
                                 scc -c "RFC 123"   # record changes due to RFC

	-d|--delay <delay>        Maximum delay (in seconds) to wait before the
	                          collection of data starts.
	-e|--extra <mod>          scc-collect runs all system modules and matching <mod> user modules.
	                          Where <mod> can contain shell filename wildcards. When used in 
	                          combination with the -v option, make sure that each 
	                          invocation activates the same set of user modules.
	-S|--selection <mod>      Run selected (system or user) module(s) for virtual host (-v).
	                          Where <mod> can contain shell filename wildcards.
	                          To detect and process layout version changes, use the -r option
	                          on the next invocation or include module general in the selection.
	-f|--fqdn                 Use the full qualified name, not the short
	                          hostname, when sending files to the SCC server.
	                          On the SCC client, all filenames contain the 
	                          short hostname only.
	-h|--help                 Display the syntax and exit.
	-F|--from <from>          Mail-address used as sender of mailed data.
	                          Default value is <root@host.domain.com>.
	-i|--smtp <smtp>          SMTP-server to connect to; implies "-p smtp".
	                          Use the -F option when the SMTP-server does
	                          not allow relaying and the domain of the system
	                          differs from the domain of the SMP-server.
	                          Check the logfile in /var/opt/scc/data.
	-I|--ident <ident>        Identity file for scp; implies "-p scp"
	-k|--key <key>            File containing public key of scc-server;
	                          used to encrypt the data that is sent to scc-srv.
	                          Refer to the documentation of scc-srv for details.
	                          Add the key-file to scc-localize (SCC_KEY_FILE) to make sure
	                          that all invocations of scc (and scc-log during upgrades) 
	                          lead to encrypted data for scc-pull.
	-l|--label <label>        Label to indicate the function of the system. Use <label>
	                          in the webinterface of scc-srv to select/group systems.
	                          The label is preserved for next runs until this option is
	                          used again.
	-m|--max_age <max>        Entries in the log-file, that are older
	                          than <max> months, are deleted
	-n|--norun                Do not collect new SCC-data. Send the files
	                          right away.
	-o|--option no_hosts      No strict host checking for scp. Implies -p scp.
	                          Dropbear ignores the ssh/scp options used for this.
	-p|--prog <prog>          Use <prog> to send the files in a specific
	                          packaged bundle to scc-server. Default value
	                          for <prog> is pull. Supported values are:
	                            cp      copy to local directory <dest>
	                            ftp     transfer to <dir> on <host> by using ~/.netrc
	                            mail    email to scc-server
	                            pull    local transfer to /var/opt/scc/data/transfer;
	                                    transfer is done later by scc-srv.
	                                    Ignores -s options.
	                            rcp     remote-copy to scc-server
	                            scp     SSH-copy to scc-server
	                            smtp    use SMTP to connect directly to port
	                                    25 of host-part of <dest> or to <smtp>
	                                    of -i option. Optionally use the port
	                                    specified with the -P option.
	                                    Logfile in /var/opt/scc/data/smtp.log
	-P|--port <port>          The non-default port for -p scp|smtp.
	-r|--restart              Restart collection by removing the existing/current
	                          snapshot. This option is usefull for systems with
	                          frequent changes where you want the latest snapshot
	                          on scc-srv.
	-s|--destination <dest>   Destination to send the files to. The format 
	                          depends upon the transfer program:
	                            cp          local directory: /var/opt/scc-srv/data
	                            ftp         destination: <host>:<dir>
	                            mail|smtp   email-address: scc@myserver.com
	                                        With smptp, use the -F option when
	                                        the domain of <dest> differs from the
	                                        domain of the SMTP-server (-i option).
	                            rcp|scp     destination: <user>@<host>:<dir>
	                                        The <user> and <dir> parts are optional.
	                                        Optional use the port for scp specified
	                                        with the -P option.
	                          When the directory part is omitted for cp, ftp, rcp and
	                          scp, the data directory of scc is used to determine the
	                          default data directory of scc-srv.
	-t|--test                 Test connectivity by sending empty files, no delay 
	                          is used (implies -d 0) and no data is collected.
	-u|--user <user>          To be used with -p pull option. The files can be 
	                          transferred by <user>.
	-v|--virtual <host>       Do not use the hostname of the system, as base for
	                          all scc-files, use <host> instead. This option should
	                          be used to run specific user modules with frequently
	                          changing data using the -e option. This avoids
	                          "changes" in the scc-data of the system itself.
	                          This option requires the -e option.
	                          Note that the resulting files differ from the regular
	                          SCC data and html files.
	-V|--version              Print version of program and exit

.SH  ARGUMENTS
.nf

	None.

.SH  DIAGNOSTICS
.nf

	The program issues the following messages to stderr:

	Syntax error, use: scc <options>
	A syntax error has been detected and reported.

	scc: Syntax error, missing argument for option <option>
	The indicated option is missing argument(s).

	scc: non-numeric interval
	A non-numeric value has been specified for <delay>.

	scc: wrong format with of mail-address: <address>
	The mail-address (supplied with the -F or the -s option) does not 
	start with "<" or does not end with ">".

	scc: non-numeric argument for -m option: <max>
	Use only numeric arguments for -m option.

	scc: unknown transfer-method: <prog>
	The argument of the -p option has an unsupported value.

	scc: missing destination for method <prog>
	Add the --dest option to specify a destination.

	scc: cannot use -S option without -v option
	Limiting system modules only makes sense for a virtual host run.

	scc: use -e and/or -S option with -v option
	The -v option can only be used when the -e and/or -S option is used.

	scc: mail not found
	This program is used to sent scc data to scc-srv.

	scc: uuencode not found
	This program is used to sent scc data to scc-srv. On RedHat
	it is part of: Applications/Archiving.

	scc: openssl not found
	This program is used when the -k option is used to encrypt the data to 
	be sent via email. When openssl is not found in PATH, no data is sent.

	scc: cannot find nc and telnet to transfer data
	One of these programs is used to send data via smtp to scc-srv.

	scc: scp not found
	This program is used to send the scc data to scc-srv.

	scc: cannot use -t option combined with -a option
	Do not combine the -a and the -t option.

	scc: cannot access target directory: <dest>
	The target directory for the copy does not exist.

	scc: cannot determine domainname
	The domainname cannot be determined while using the -f option.

	scc: cannot access <alt>
	The directory for scc-data of alternate systems cannot be accessed.

	scc: cannot access identity/key-file <ident>
	The indicated file cannot be accessed.

	scc: unknown user: <user>
	The supplied username is not a known user.

	scc: no data to transfer, run scc without -n option
	The transfer directory does not contain any files. Rerun scc (without 
	the -n option) to collect data in the transfer directory.

	scc: non-root users cannot use the -u option
	Use the -u option only when invoking as root.

.SH  RETURN VALUE
.nf

	Upon completion, the program returns one of the following values:

		0 successful completion
		1 Syntax error
		2 Runtime error

.SH  EXAMPLES
.nf

	To take a daily snapshot and transfer the files to myserver, use a 
	cronjob like:

	   0 23 * * * /opt/scc/bin/scc -s "<scc-transfer@otherserver.mydom>"

	This runs scc-log daily and transfers the files to otherserver.
	On otherserver the alias file should contain a line like:

	   scc-transfer: "|/opt/scc-srv/bin/scc-receive-mail"

	Refer to the manual page of scc-srv for the proper setup of the
	server part of SCC.

.SH  EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.nf

	The names of the files that are sent to the scc-server, must be
	known in the server-software also: scc-transfer.gz, scc-transfer.Z
	or scc-transfer depending on the presence of compression software.
	Refer to the manual page of scc-srv for the setup of the scc-server.

	The files that are send to the server, do not contain the style.css
	and main index.html file as this transfer to the sever is meant to
	process the data from the client.

	This program uses gzip or compress to compress the data.
	It uses uuencode to transfer the data through email.
	Either netcat (nc) or telnet are used with transfer via smtp.

	Use environment variable SCC_DATA to specify an alternative directory
	for the SCC data files. Should be an absolute path.

.SH  COPYRIGHT
.nf

	scc is free software under the terms of the GNU General Public 
	License. Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Open Challenge B.V.,
	2004-2005 OpenEyeT Professional Services, 2005-2018 QNH, 
	2019 Siem Korteweg.

.SH  FILES
.nf

	- /var/opt/scc/data - directory for data files
		scc.<hostname>.cur - current SCC-snapshot
		scc.<hostname>.html - current SCC-snapshot in HTML-format
		scc.<hostname>.log - logbook for changes in SCC-snapshots
		scc.<hostname>.log.html - logbook in HTML-format
		smtp.log - logfile for transport with -p smtp
	The filename on the scc-server is: scc.<hostname>.tar.gz When
	gzip is not found, compress is used and ".gz" is changed in ".Z".
	When compress is also not found, cat is used and ".gz" is removed
	from the filename. When the -f option is used, the DNS-domain is
	added to the remote filenames.
	When rcp/scp are used, the file scc.<hostname>.signal is used to
	indicate the completed transfer of the scc-data on the server.
	- /var/opt/scc/data/transfer - directory for pull and transfer
	- /var/opt/scc/data/plugin_data/<module> - output of user module

.SH  SEE ALSO
.nf

	scc(1), scc-cmp(1), scc-collect(1), scc-log(1), scc-log2html(1),
	scc-plugin(1), scc-snap2html(1), scc(4), scc(5)

.SH  VERSION
.nf

	$Revision: 6271 $

